                                Beginning Yoga
                                   KIN 108J

INSTRUCTOR: Rebecca Rhoades		
CLASS LOCATION & TIME: Hyslop Room 206, MWF 9-9:50am
TEXT BOOK & SUPPLIES:    Athletic Apparel 
PHONE NUMBER: 701-317-5700
EMAIL: rebecca.rhoades@ email.und.edu

Course Objectives:  
      Our objectives are to learn and properly execute basic yoga poses. Learn pose names and have lots of fun!
Course Evaluation/Grading:
      
      Attendance:		 		80% 
      Quizzes (mid-term and final):  	20% 
		
Grading:	
      
      90-100 = A	
      80-89 = B	
      70-79 = C	
      60-69 = D	
      59 and below = F

Attendance: Students are expected to attend and fully participate in all class meetings, arrive on time and remain until the class period is complete. Attendance is 80% of your grade so showing up is essential to pass this class.

Absences: (Definition) - Missing a class due to any of the following reasons constitutes an absence. Late registration, illness- with or without a physician's statement, injury, wedding, funeral, Athletic Department event or travel, skipping, or any other reason that keeps you from attending class.   If you must miss a number of classes due to any of the above reasons, it will negatively impact your grade.

UND Attendance and Participation Policy
Attendance and participation in class activities are considered integral parts of a university education. It is University policy that attendance in classes is expected of all students. If attendance and/or participation are required and will impact grading, it is the responsibility of the instructor to communicate clearly that policy to students during the first week of class in the course syllabus.

Even in situations where an instructor might excuse a class absence, e.g., severe medical situations, family emergencies, military service, or authorized University activities, it is the responsibility of the student, whenever possible, to inform the instructor ahead of time.
Approved: UND Senate, 05-04-2006

GENERAL INFORMATION
1. Safety Information:
      a) You participate at your own risk. We recommend that you have personal health/accident insurance since you are responsible for your own health care costs. You may be asked to secure a physician's statement clearing you to participate in this class.
      
      b) It is your responsibility to provide your instructor with information regarding injuries, surgeries,
      Medications, or other special considerations which may affect your participation in class.
      
      c) In case of an accident, do not handle or clean up blood but instead notify your instructor.
      
2. Lockers: Backpacks and other personal belongings are generally not recommended in gyms/activity areas. The men's locker room is located on the second floor of the Hyslop and the women's locker room is on the first floor. Lockers can be rented on a semester basis from the aquatics office; contact Brian Strom at 777-3050 or Hyslop room 251. All lockers are rented on a `first come, first served' basis starting the first day of the term. Day-use-only lockers are available free of charge. You must supply your own lock and all locks on day-use-only lockers must be removed at the end of the day.

3. No food, drink, or chewing gum is permitted in our facilities with the exception of plastic, covered water bottles.

4. Cell phones must be turned off during class times.

5. You will have the opportunity to evaluate your class and instructor at the end of the term.

UND Rules For Giving Incomplete:
UND policy  -  It is expected that students will complete all requirements for a course during the time frame of the course. For reasons beyond a student's control, and upon request by the student or on behalf of the student, an incomplete grade may be assigned by the instructor when there is reasonable certainty the student will successfully complete the course without retaking it. The mark "I," Incomplete, shall be assigned only to the student who has been in attendance and has done satisfactory work up to a time within four weeks of the close of the semester, including the examination period, and whose work is incomplete for reasons satisfactory to his or her instructor.

Obligation Of The Students BIP Only:
Student obligation is to work through channels to resolve problems before going to the Chairperson or Dean. 
	Student  -  Instructor  - BIP Coordinator- Department Chairperson  -  Chairperson  -  Dean
                                  (KPHE ONLY)
                                       
The student (not the instructor) has complete responsibility to initiate drop procedures for this course. NO EXCEPTIONS!

"Because this class is not a full (16-week) semester course, the drop and refund dates differ significantly from full term courses.  Contact Student Account Services at 701-777-3911 or UND.studentaccounts@email.und.edu to inquire about the dates and deadlines."

Refund For Class Charges:
Contact Student Account Services at 777-3911 for information regarding refunds after classes have started.

Risk Potential:
All students must fill out and sign a PAR-Q & you and Waiver of Liability/medical release to participate in BIP courses. It is encouraged and advised that students have or obtain health insurance prior to participating in BIP activity classes. 

Dress Code: 
Attire appropriate to the activity such as shorts, t-shirt, and athletic footwear are required in class. For hygienic and safety considerations students cannot participate in activities barefoot for any reason.


PHE Equipment Policy: 
For the majority of BIP classes the KPHE department will provide the required equipment for students to use; instructors will let students know if they need to bring any equipment for the class. KPHE equipment is not available for rent or use by outside groups and equipment is only to be used under the supervision of your BIP instructor.

Room Use Information: 
The gyms, pool, and racquetball courts in the Hyslop building are available for rent contact Bert Klamm at 777-2713 for information. The dance studio and martial arts rooms are not available for use for individuals, students clubs, or outside groups.

Disability Information:
If you have emergency medical information to share, need special arrangements in case of building evacuation, or require certain accommodations because of a disability, please make an appointment with your instructor as soon as possible at the listed office number. If you plan to request disability accommodations, you are expected to register with the Disability Support Services (DSS) in room 190 of McConnell Hall. Their phone number is 777-3425.




